So now you've seen where you can use wildcard type arguments and where you cannot, let's talk about
how to use them.
So we need a new class for this and back, obviously, in our generics project.
New Java class, we're going to call this one wild card exampled.
So this class of set up five static methods.
You see the first one print up a list, this takes a list, has an argument with a wild card, with
an upper bound of exception, meaning this method can be invoked by passing a list of top exception
or any subclasses of exception there.
Because this is upper bound, we could use methods and attributes of the exception type in the code.
Maybe that we've got the letter from the public method print lower list, which is also a static method.
This also takes a list as an argument with a wild card, this time with a lower bound of exception,
meaning this method can be invoked by passing a list of top exception or any super classes of exception,
such as Straubel an object because super classes are acceptable for lower bound.
The methods of the declared top exception are not available because the type of object actually passed
could be something as broad as an object.
Next static method.
We've got their public static method print open door.
This takes a list as an argument with a wild card specifying this time no bounds.
This means the method for print a list of any type.
Next, we've got the static public method print object lists.
This takes the list of object as an argument, this time with no wild cards specified.
So this method will only take a list of object in brackets.
So try to invoke this method before any of the following.
So list with entertainment angle brackets, exception in angle brackets or runtime exception and angle
brackets, etc. will result in a couple times error.
So this is the reason the wild card with no upas all our band would be used as in print open door.
As in that example, there are like 34.
And finally, we've got our main method.
It's creating several lists, as you can see there, and we're testing out some of these methods so
that any way you can see it out, method vacation is a method invocation that would create a compiler
error if I've left to uncommented.
And you can see there's quite a few examples of that.
As we move on down here.
So feel free to check out the source code for those.
But let's run the call.
And you can see we've got the various output, quite a bit of output, because we had quite a few different
locations in our my MyFord.
So now that we say that running, let's switch over to this table, which shows what argument partisan
politics is using the wild cards of the top specified.
So the columns here represent the metal arguments, this type declaration, the Roj represent the lists
type arguments as specified by the local variable declaration passed to the method argument.
So looking at this table, we're trying to determine whether the entries on the left hand side will
pass.
The compiler check is in the wild cards listed at the top.
So starting with the first one where we defining list with object to Dingel brackets.
So this is restricted to non generic lists, raw or lists of object.
So therefore a list of exception in brackets won't pass the compiler.
Check the next one.
We've got a wild card there, a question mark in brackets for list.
Well, that's a wild card which opens the door for all classes.
So effectively list exception in brackets will pass the compiler check as a result.
The next one we've got list with the wild card and super exceptional angle brackets.
Well, this is the law pad which opens the door for the type specified and it's super classes.
So as a result, list, with exception in angle brackets will pass the compiler check and the last entry,
their list this time we're using the wild card extends exception, which has the upper bound, which
opens the door for the top specified and it's subclasses.
And that's a yes for the listing ception in angle brackets as well.
So I won't run through the three other entries there, but you can see the results on screen.
It's a good reminder that if you want to grab the slots for this course, check out the very last video,
watch that video and it shows you how to get the slides.
This is one of those slides that I think is important for you to perhaps memorize or certainly be very
familiar with, especially when you're ready to take the exam or swing back to the card now.
And looking at the code.
You see, that's how my method is called liberty.
This one here, a la notifier over uncommented.
So I can say by doing that, we've got a pilot error required, top list of objects, brackets, and
it's found an integer or list of integer in brackets.
That's because the variable integer list is declared a list of integer an ankle brackets, which does
not meet the criteria in this particular case for a print object list, if you recall, up here.
Which is looking for a list of object in brackets now, this might be confusing, since I'm sure you
know that integer is an object.
However, a list of integer Lego brackets does not meet.
There is a requirement for a list of object in brackets and therefore cannot be used interchangeably
with parameters of that type.
Do you think this diagram, Archos documentation is a good one?
It's very important you remember it for the exam.
It's very easy to get tripped up by this.
There's link also the resources section, if you want to go to that directly.
As you can see in this example here, a box with integer and brackets is not a subtype of box number,
no legal brackets, even though integer is effectively a subtype of no.
Go back to the code.
I've got a comment about that line again, that's got the arrow.
When you're going to spend some time here at the end of the main method.
So that code creates a variable of the raw type list, but assigns a list of integer to it.
So now we're able to use the print object list with a list of integer.
Why does that work?
Well, the answer is you can always cast a generic type to a raw type.
Now, looking at that code, it could have replaced it with the following, which would do the same
thing just to confirm we'll run both of these bits of code that we've added.
And we get the relevant output.
So I consider the following code I'm about to post in.
Noted that compiles, but not carefully that intelligence sharing and Coppola warning if we hover over
it.
Unchecked assignment you to that list to get you to list.
We've got a Brackett's and Javadoc object so you can pass a rule type to any method that has a method
argument with a top argument, even a method that specifies an upper bound, but you do so at your own
peril.
So with that said, let's run this code.
And you can see that we've got a class cast exception to that energy cannot be cast to Javadoc like
the exception.
But let's try something else.
Let's change the names of our methods right at the top so that they all have the same name.
So they are right up to the top here to our wildcat example class.
And what we're going to do is just overwrite the first two methods.
Completely overwrought and posted a decade or so, hopefully, you can see what I've tried to do there,
I'm hoping to overload the method by calling the method the same name print list for both methods.
And you can see that this has produced a compiler error if I hover over it.
Basically says both methods have the same erasure, basically the same erasure signature, so any types
declared for generic methods or in type variable arguments or parameter methods will ultimately be erased
and therefore released have anything to fight by list in brackets, whatever will ultimately just be
a list.
So as a result, you can overload methods using type parameters.
So I'm going to do that change now.
So I'll be back to the methods as they were prior to me posting that coded.
There's Aboriginal code again.
So the following table attempts to try to help you understand what the method cannot be invoked by using
a variable of a certain type or an assignment made in real life.
You'll have your idea of the exam can be very complicated to figure it out and you'll probably be tested
with various scenarios.
The clubs I could see on screen now represent what I'm going to be calling the receiving type, the
variable type of the method argument or verbal declaration which the object instance will be passed
to or assigned to.
The rows represent what are going to be calling the past type, the top declaration of the object instance
being passed to a better document or being assigned to a different reference variable.
So remember, these rules, if you can rule, can be used in any instance, receiving any TARP, a being
pass to any type like a class like example listed in brackets will always receive or can be passed to
a list with brackets.
A list with questionmark extends to brackets will always receive or can be passed to a list of questionmark
estates, Telegu brackets and so on and about a generic class.
And that's the question.
Michelago brackets can receive any type, but it can only be passed to a roar type or a similarly declared
unboarded generic class.
And again, it's the question Michelago brackets.
A generic class, a top argument that does not contain a wildcard has to exactly match the receiving
type with the exception of rule.
So List Talgo brackets can only be received by list Talgo brackets or list with object in brackets can
only be received by list of object legal brackets.
And the list integer brackets cannot be passed to a list object in brackets.
So list Talgo brackets cannot be passed or list object in brackets and so on.
So this type can be passed aurore type A matching type or a type declared with an unbounded wild card.
Now, what rate have this slowdown spread?
You've talked a lot about it already, but it's there for you to take a good look at and take some time
to study this before you actually sit the exam.
And I think it'll be very beneficial for you.
Yes, I've said a few times throughout the course the slides are available for you to download that
you offline to check out the last video.
It is cause for details of that.
But so we've covered a lot of material in the last number of videos on generics, in the next video,
we're going to take a deeper dive into some of the less used or confusing aspects of generics in the
out of ordinary video.
So we'll see you in the next video.